Satirical cartoon about the escalation of tensions between the United States and the British Commonwealth during the Aroostook War. U.S. Pres. Martin Van Buren, atop an ox with the head of Maine Gov. John Fairfield, confronts England's Queen Victoria, who is riding a dog with the head of the duke of Wellington.
 The ox's tail is pulled by Virginia congressman Henry A. Wise.

Fort Kent, Maine was built during the bloodless Aroostook War of 1838-1839 that was a border dispute between Great Britain and the United States.

A proclamation issued in Fredericton, New Brunswick, Feb. 13, 1839, noting that the government will take action against "armed persons" from Maine who were cutting timber on Canadian land.
 The proclamation asks that New Brunswick residents who took Royal arms and ammunition to defend against the intruders return them and states that a militia will be formed to handle the problem.

Map to illustrate the boundary line established by the Treaty of Washington, Aug. 9, 1842, between the United States and New Brunswick, Canada.

John G. Deane, a native of Massachusetts who settled in Ellsworth and worked as a lawyer, was among those sent to the northern areas of Maine to help determine the boundary between Maine and New Brunswick.

Secretary of State John Quincy Adams wrote instructions to Richard Rush specifying the government's position on the northeast boundary between Maine and Canada. He refers to the Treaty of Ghent, which ended the War of 1812, the provisions it made for resolving the boundary,
 and the previous efforts that had been made to try to set the Maine boundary and others. 

In 1798 surveyors and map makers were sent out by the governments of Britain and the United States to determine the northeast boundary line between the two countries.
 It is part of a collection of maps made to help determine the boundary.

Citizens on both sides of the border began to develop the area to solidify their claims, but this only raised the tension on both sides. By the 1820s, authorities from each government were acting against the other’s settlers and agents.

KC: 4.3.1.A
This connects to KC 4.3.1.A because it shows america's want to control more land than what they own and did so with diplomatic efforts; such as John G Deane, who was sent to the northern areas of Maine to help determine the boundary betweeen Maine and New Brunswick.